---
title: "2020-08-28T12:02:40+02:00"
date:  "2020-08-28T12:02:40+02:00"
tags:
  - Activism
  - Politics
---

An article on Vox by Terry Nguyen explains a recent rise in the use of a slideshow feature on the photo sharing platform Instagram to distribute messages of social justice by activists.

> The 10-image carousel, which Instagram launched in 2017, has been repurposed by activists, independent artists, advocacy groups, and well-meaning individuals as a means to educate and inform the masses, one slide at a time. Consider it something like PowerPoint activism. Over the past few months, these slides have migrated their way into my Explore page or been reposted on Stories of my friends and followers; in fact, these posts became so popular that I encountered similar designs and sentiments across multiple Stories. The most striking graphics stood out in my feeds, almost like an advertisement.

The article further details how creators are "co-opting popular design aesthetics from brands" in order to draw attention to their slideshows.

> Hu, who previously worked as the global design director for Nike Sportswear, had spent two weeks in June collaborating with two other artists to piece together copy, art, and design for a carousel on police abolition (he purposefully included a clear indication to swipe left on the first graphic). The artists sought to subvert Instagram’s algorithmic tendency to prioritize photographs by merging images of flowers and nature with informative text.

Read the full article [here](https://web.archive.org/web/20200820195250/https://www.vox.com/the-goods/21359098/social-justice-slideshows-instagram-activism).
